The proto-race of the Grobi, a fully grown goblin is roughly the same height as a prepubescent human child and weighs slightly less. Goblins are the weakest of the all Grobi, but also the hardiest. A goblin can survive on the least amount of food out of the four subraces, and can meaningfully metabolize almost anything edible including rotting flesh and vegetation. They also breed at an exception rate, and are in extreme situations observed to cannibalise themselves in order to survive.

The nature of a goblin is cowardly, and will only directly attack something bigger and stronger than themselves with overwhelming numbers or from ambushes and traps where their target is unaware or incapacitated. A well-fed goblin, like all members of their race, can regenerate limbs and recover from otherwise fatal wounds in a very short manner of time, often surprising their assailant by recovering and subsequently counterattacking after a seemly fatal blow cut off an arm or a gash disembowelled them moments prior. This is due to the metabolism of the Grobi being so efficient that they can convert muscle and fat mass on their body into usable resources for regeneration far more efficiently than any other creature otherwise observed.

If a goblin is consistently able to consume enough food to surpass their baseline bodily needs to function, any food eaten after is stored onto or built onto the body. A 1kg of meat can be converted into roughly 0.5kg of muscle with little to no physical effort required. A goblin that eats enough to build their body in such a manner can grow into what is called a Hobgoblin. A Hobgoblin is the biggest a natural born goblin can grow and stands on par with an average human and weighs slightly more. If a Goblin that has grown into a Hobgoblin is unable to continue eating to maintain the hobgoblin baseline, the body will go into starvation mode and begin shrinking itself back to the smaller goblin. This can also be a conscious choice where the process is accelerated and the body shrinks itself very quickly, turning the Hobgoblin back into a Goblin after passing out and then waking up surrounded in faeces as the body rapidly ejects all waste products during the transformation.

If a Goblin that has grown into a Hobgoblin breeds with another Goblin that has also grown into a Hobgoblin or another true born Hobgoblin, then the offspring will be a fully-fledged Hobgoblin and cannot ever be a goblin